Situations are viewed in extremes — something is either a total success or a complete failure, with no in-between. “If I don’t do this perfectly, I’m a failure”, “Any day with a rough patch is a bad day.”, “Kids grow up to either be good people or bad people.”, “If your partner forgets your anniversary, they don’t love you.”
One negative event is seen as part of a never-ending pattern.“I didn’t get the job — I’ll never succeed at anything.” “I’ve tried treatment before and it didn’t work, so nothing will help me”, “I’m always going to feel this way”
Focusing only on the negative parts of a situation and ignoring the positives. “I’ve got one bad review, my performance is terrible”, “I’ve received a few positive comments but I can’t stop thinking about the negative ones.” Your friend compliments your work, but you fixate on one small piece of criticism.
Rejecting positive experiences or accomplishments by insisting they “don’t count.” “They said I did a good job, but they were just being nice”, “I was successful, but that was just a one-time thing” “That compliment didn’t mean anything, they just didn’t want to hurt my feelings”
Assuming something bad will happen, even without evidence. “They aren't talking to me, they probably think I’m annoying”,“they are not going to offer the job to me”, “what’s the point of taking this exam, I’m going to fail”
Imagining the worst-case scenario and blowing things out of proportion. “This is going to ruin my entire day," “A new mole on my skin must be cancer”, “My partner didn’t text back; they must be done with me.”
Assuming something is true based solely on how you feel. ”I have guilty feelings so I must be a bad person”, “I’m scared to leave the house so it must be dangerous, I’m never going to leave”, “I have a gut feeling none of my friends like me, so I’m going to avoid all of them.”
You pressure yourself with rigid rules or expectations, leading to guilt, frustration, or resentment. “I shouldn’t be feeling this way”, “I was expecting my family member to thank me for something and they didn’t, now i feel sad”, “I should be able to stick to my diet, I don’t know what’s wrong with me”
Instead of describing the error, you assign a negative label to yourself or others. “I didn’t do well on that exam, I’m so stupid,” “My coworker came to work late, she’s so lazy”, “My friends all forgot my birthday, they’re so thoughtless”
You blame yourself for things beyond your control, or you blame others without seeing your part. “I failed my drivers test, it must have been because the instructor was biased”, “The hairdresser I recommended to my friend did a bad job, it was my fault for recommending them”, “My event got rained out, I should have picked a better day to do it”