Overwhelmed by workload - Try not to worry about falling behind. Being scared to open your laptop will prevent you from staying with your work. 5 classes at a time is hard so don’t feel bad. Instead, maybe try using a planner to make a schedule for when you can complete your readings, and even talk to a professor if it doesn’t seem feasible. This organization will help relieve you of your fear of falling behind.
You are smart and you produce good quality work. Try not to worry so much about not getting an A. The fact that you care will lead you to earning successful grades. And spending hours trying to perfect an assignment is not worth your time, your work is strong as it is.
If you freeze during an exam, I suggest closing your eyes, taking deep breaths and counting to 10. This will help calm your brain and allow you to remember that you are prepared for the test and you are fully capable of doing great. Also remember that it is just one test and no matter what happens you will be okay.
Try using other forms of communication such as text updates or face times to stay connected with your family and friends from home. Being away is very hard, in fact, all first years experience homesickness. Remember that the people around you are also looking to make new friends and you will find yourself feeling more comfortable at school before you know it.
It is normal to feel mentally drained at this time. You have a lot to deal with and balancing is hard. It might benefit you to consider your responsibilities and see if you can take a break from one to give yourself more time. Make sure you are still getting good sleep, it is super important. If not, there are other strategies to balance successfully like making a schedule.
There are great support systems regarding financial concerns. You can talk to a family member or the financial office. There are scholarships and financial help available. Make sure you are able to still prioritize good sleep and your academics, I know it’s hard.
College can certainly feel like a lot of pressure, especially from parents. The truth is all that people can ask of you is try your very best. If you do try your best I know you will be successful. Just keep working hard and the results will come. Your family is proud of you.
You have a lot of support around you, don’t forget to lean on your friends or family at this time. This is an event that everyone will go through and they always end up okay, it just takes time. Try to focus your mind on other activities that make you happy.
This is a great opportunity to talk with your academic advisor or one of the professors in your intended field. They are experts at these things and will not let you miss out on graduating if you talk to them. Just be honest.
You are receiving a good education and that will greatly help you for your future. There are endless jobs out there and I know you will find one that you enjoy. Consider talking to a career advisor at your school for more specific advice.